Add envoy extension docs (#16376)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/connect/proxies/envoy-extensions/usage/lambda.mdx

---
layout: docs
page_title: Lambda Envoy Extension
description: >-
  Learn how the `lambda` Envoy extension enables Consul to join AWS Lambda functions to its service mesh.
---

# Invoke Lambda functions in Envoy proxy

> The Lambda Envoy extension configures outbound traffic on upstream dependencies allowing mesh services to properly invoke AWS Lambda Functions. Lambda functions appear in the catalog as any other Consul service.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Lambda Envoy extension configures outbound traffic on upstream dependencies allowing mesh services to properly invoke AWS Lambda functions. Lambda functions appear in the catalog as any other Consul service.
```

You can only enable the Lambda extension through `service-defaults`. This is because the Consul uses the `service-defaults` configuration entry name as the catalog name for the Lambda functions.

## Specification

> The LambdaEnvoy extension has the following arguments:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Lambda Envoy extension has the following arguments:
```

| Arguments            | Description                                                                                      |
| -------------------- | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ |
| `ARN`                | Specifies the [AWS ARN](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/general/latest/gr/aws-arns-and-namespaces.html) for the service's Lambda. |
| `InvocationMode`     | Determines if Consul configures the Lambda to be invoked using the synchronous or asynchronous [invocation mode](https://docs.aws.amazon.com/lambda/latest/operatorguide/invocation-modes.html). |
| `PayloadPassthrough` | Determines if the body Envoy receives is converted to JSON or directly passed to Lambda.         |

Be aware  that unlike [manual lambda registration](/consul/docs/lambda/registration/manual#supported-meta-fields), region is  inferred from the ARN when specified through an Envoy extension.

## Workflow

There are two steps to configure the Lambda Envoy extension:

1. Configure EnvoyExtensions through `service-defaults`. 
1. Apply the configuration entry.

### Configure `EnvoyExtensions`

> To use the Lambda Envoy extension, you must configure and apply a `service-defaults` configuration entry. The name of this entry will be used as the Consul service name for the Lambdas in the catalog. Downstream services will use this name to invoke the Lambda.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use the Lambda Envoy extension, you must configure and apply a `service-defaults` configuration entry. Consul uses the name of the entry as the Consul service name for the Lambdas in the catalog. Downstream services also use the name to invoke the Lambda.
```
Just a little passive voice and future tense.

> The following example configures the Lambda Envoy extension to create a service “`lambda` in the mesh that can invoke the associated Lambda function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The following example configures the Lambda Envoy extension to create a service named `lambda` in the mesh that can invoke the associated Lambda function.
```

    ARN = "arn:aws:lambda:us-west-2:111111111111:function:lambda-1234"
  }
}
```

</CodeBlockConfig>
</Tab>
<Tab heading="JSON" group="json">
<CodeBlockConfig filename="lambda-envoy-extension.json">

```hcl
{
  "kind": "service-defaults",
  "name": "lambdaInvokingApp",
  "protocol": "http",
  "envoy_extensions": [{
    "name": "builtin/aws/lambda",
    "arguments": {
      "arn": "arn:aws:lambda:us-west-2:111111111111:function:lambda-1234"
    }
  }]
}

```

</CodeBlockConfig>
</Tab>

<Tab heading="Kubernetes" group="kubernetes">
<CodeBlockConfig filename="lambda-envoy-extension.yaml">

```yaml
apiVersion: consul.hashicorp.com/v1alpha1
kind: ServiceDefaults
metadata:
  name: lambda
spec:
  protocol: http
  envoyExtensions:
    name = "builtin/aws/lambda"
    arguments:
      arn: arn:aws:lambda:us-west-2:111111111111:function:lambda-1234
```

</CodeBlockConfig>
</Tab>

</Tabs>

For a full list of parameters for `EnvoyExtensions`, refer to the [`service-defaults`](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/service-defaults#envoyextensions) and [`proxy-defaults`](/consul/docs/connect/config-entries/proxy-defaults#envoyextensions) configuration entries reference documentation. 

> ~> **Warning:** You can only enable the Lambda extension through `service-defaults`.

Author: ```suggestion
~> **Note:** You can only enable the Lambda extension through `service-defaults`.
```
